# Macro-economics-Project
The primary aim of this project is to study the transmission of consumer spending to the economic growth of the USA during the year 2002-2023. Specifically, the report aims to investigate the impact of consumer spending on the country's gross domestic product (GDP) and to analyse the dependence of consumer spending on a country's GDP. The research also focuses on the effects of two significant crises, the Global Financial Crisis of 2008-09 and the Covid-19 pandemic of 2020-21, on the US economy. Consumer Spending (Personal Consumption Expenditure) and Gross Domestic Product (GDP) data of the USA have been analysed for the period mentioned earlier to study the dependence of consumer spending on a country's GDP. 

The study of crisis years has helped to better understand the effect that such financial crises can have on the output of an economy and how that impacts consumer spending and business cycles. A quarter-wise analysis of GDP and PCE (Personal Consumption Expenditure) data has been performed here for detailed data analysis. The percentage change in GDP and percentage change in PCE have also been used to find a correlation between various parameters and the impact of one on the other. The research paper further does a comparative and comprehensive analysis of crises and the non-crises period to study the differences and similarities between the two.

Further in the paper, we checked for stationarity of GDP and PCE using the Augmented Dicky Fuller test. Autocorrelation analysis on various parameters was performed to investigate the long-term relationships between the variables. To better estimate the dependence of GDP on Consumer Spending during the normal and crisis periods, regression analysis using Python was performed on the quarter-wise dataset. 

In conclusion, this project aims to offer insights into the effects of economic downturns on the economy and the relationship between GDP and consumer spending. By utilizing various analytical methods, the research provides a comprehensive analysis that can be useful to policymakers, economists, and scholars interested in the economic dynamics of any country.
